Lesson 3 Git Reflections

Reflections Question:
What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need it?

Initializing a repository creates the framework for git commits to go.
On a literal level, it creates a hidden folder .git in the working directory
and creates several files within this for states to be committed.

Initializing a repository does not perform a first commit. We have to do that.

Reflections Question:
How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

The working directory contains all items that exist in a repository.
The staging area lets you take items in your repository and commit changes to them.
It's important to have these things separate, because sometimes you want to
commit only one file, or multiple files together.  This allows for that flexibility.
Also, having a separate repository from working directory is needed for git functionality.
Udacity Git Commit Message Style Guide: http://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/

You can compare your working directory with the staging area. Check it out!
Note: Even when there no changes to stage, the staging area still contains
the most recent commit. This is because the git add command does not wear off.

git diff compares the working directory to the staging area
git diff --staged compares the staging area to the most recent commit
git diff commit1 commit2 compares the two commits (1&2)

Reflections Question:
How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

After you make your changes to a file in the repository, you change the changes between
that and the most recent commit (contained in the staging area) by using "git diff".
Then, you stage the changes you want in that commit (maybe you changed more than one
file but only want to change one, you only stage the one change). Then you can compare
the staged commit with the most recent commit using "git diff --staged". This will show
you the changes you will commit. After you commit, you can check that you only had one
logical change by using the git diff commit1 commit2 command to compare the last two commits.

Reflections Question:
What are some situations when branches wold be helpful in keeping your history organized?
How would branches help?

I can see this being useful when I want to make a big change to try something new a different.
The difference would need to be substantial or experimental.
The technique would be useful when you want to quickly jump back and forth between iterations
of your file. Helps keep the project organized. Master branch for the version that works.
Extra branches for side projects that you think will break: experimental or developmental.
Working on a feature and come accross a bug, or when you get bored with a feature, can go
back and work on a different aspect.

Reflections Question:
How do diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Drawing out a diagram can help you capture in your head what is happening along branches
and in between branches. I can see this being especially useful when trying to convey
your project flow to another person or to understand what's happening with a project
you are new to but has many branches involved it.

This diagram drawing also helped me understand how commits can become unreachable if
they are not assigned a branch. It also helped me understand that the whole history line
is not the branch, but only the leading head is the actual "branch" (with the name master, etc.)

Note: If a branch is deleted and leaves some commits unreachable from existing branches, 
those commits will continue to be accessible by commit id, until Git’s garbage collection runs. 
This will happen automatically from time to time, unless you actively turn it off. 
You can also run this process manually with git gc.

Interesting note:
I just made a change to my .bash_profile file and Git Bash opened up with an error.
Luckily it was a small fix (I forgot to close quotation marks on an alias link),
but I could have used Git to track changes to figure out where I went wrong!

Reflections Question:
What is the result of merging two branches together? 
Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches combines the changes that occurred in both histories into one.
The branch that you are in will retain the name of the merge whereas the branch
you are merging from will be deleted (i think? According to my "git branch"
result it appears I still have the coin branch...)

Online Diagraming Tools:
https://www.gliffy.com/
https://yuml.me/diagram/activity/draw


